Understanding how business
valuation works, at least
having certain notions, is absolutely
necessary for anyone who is
related to business or management
and administration
of companies.
Why is it?
Well, very obviously, it is that
the value of a company, it does not
matter to me if we talk about a pharmacy,
that of a company listed or of a
non-listed company that bills
500 million, it does not matter
to me, is one of the most important
indicators and also increase
the valuation should be
one of the key objectives of
managers, owners, etc.
What happens is that many people
forget this perspective, it is curious.
When making an investment, people
usually take into account the
value of the asset,
revaluation, etc.
However, with companies it is very
common to be unaware of it and
in fact I am convinced that if
we did a survey among SMEs
owners, an elevated percentage
would not have any idea of what
the value of their company is.
Look, what I'm going to do is, we'
ll list a series of situations
in which the valuation of companies
is used, which, as you'll
see, are very different situations.
The first and most
common is the purchase.
But, and here as I said to you, it
doesn't matter whether we are talking
about a very small business, a family
business or a giant company,
it doesn't matter.
At the time of a purchase-sale,
the valuation comes into play.
Or, for example, if we make
capital expansions, if we
want investors to enter or we
want partners to enter, or not
to enter, but to leave.
It is very typical this,
because imagine, in a SME two partners
argue or one retires, want to
reach an agreement, etc.
So how do they do it?
How will I pay you?
Here the assessment comes into play.
Also in inheritances, divorces,
etc., sometimes you have to
value the companies, as well
as the old ones.
Also if we go to another level, well,
because the investment funds,
the Private Equity funds that
invest in non-cotized, the
Venture Capital funds that invest
in Startups, all these funds,
what they do is when they will
enter a new company, what
they do is the valuation, they
have a series of analysts
that value the company.
They are buying a share of that
company.
A lot thanks!